h1. Overview

This file contains documentation and the configuration setup we used to set up our small Hadoop (5 nodes) and Elasticsearch (3 nodes) clusters. All machines are running Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS server edition ('precise') and Java 7. We're using Elasticsearch 0.90.7, Hadoop 1.2.1, and Puppet 2.7.22 to set up the Hadoop nodes.

h1. Hadoop and Puppet

We used Puppet to install Hadoop on the nodes, see "http://puppetlabs.com/puppet/what-is-puppet":http://puppetlabs.com/puppet/what-is-puppet. First, we need to install Puppet on all machines. To get a current version of Puppet, add the Puppet repositories, see also "http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/puppetlabs_package_repositories.html#for-debian-and-ubuntu":http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/puppetlabs_package_repositories.html#for-debian-and-ubuntu as described for the master and the agents below.

h2. Master

* @wget http://apt.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs-release-precise.deb@
* @sudo dpkg -i puppetlabs-release-precise.deb@
* @sudo apt-get update@
* @sudo apt-get install puppetmaster=2.7.22-1puppetlabs1 puppet-common=2.7.22-1puppetlabs1 puppetmaster-common=2.7.22-1puppetlabs1 puppet=2.7.22-1puppetlabs1@
* @cp -R puppet /etc/puppet@
* @cd /etc/puppet/modules@
* @git clone https://github.com/fsteeg/puppet-java.git java@
* @git clone https://github.com/fsteeg/puppet-hadoop.git hadoop@
* @ssh-keygen ; cp ~/.ssh /etc/puppet/modules/hadoop/ssh@
* @cd /etc/puppet/modules/java/files@
* @wget --no-cookies --no-check-certificate --header "Cookie: gpw_e24=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.oracle.com" "http://download.oracle.com/otn-pub/java/jdk/7u21-b11/jdk-7u21-linux-x64.tar.gz"@
* @cd /etc/puppet/modules/hadoop/files@
* @wget http://archive.apache.org/dist/hadoop/core/hadoop-1.2.1/hadoop-1.2.1.tar.gz@
* remove/comment the localhost mappings (127.x.x.x) from the @/etc/hosts@ file
* configure the puppet agents in @puppet/manifests/nodes.pp@
* configure the Java version to use in @/etc/puppet/modules/java/manifests/params.pp@
* configure the cluster's Hadoop version, master, and slave nodes in @/etc/puppet/modules/hadoop/manifests/params.pp@ (use the hostnames, not the aliases, i.e. the first value after the IP in /etc/hosts, not the second; don't include the master in the slave nodes)
* start the puppet master: @sudo puppet master --mkusers@

h2. Agents

* @wget http://apt.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs-release-precise.deb@
* @sudo dpkg -i puppetlabs-release-precise.deb@
* @sudo apt-get update@
* @sudo apt-get install puppet=2.7.22-1puppetlabs1 puppet-common=2.7.22-1puppetlabs1@
* remove/comment the localhost mappings (127.x.x.x) from the @/etc/hosts@ file

h2. Both

* from each node (master and clients), request a certificate from the master: @puppet agent --test --server weywot1.hbz-nrw.de@ (weywot1.hbz-nrw.de is the master)
* if this fails with certificate issues run @puppet cert clean weywot1.hbz-nrw.de@ on the master and @rm -rf /var/lib/puppet/ssl@ on the clients
* on the master, sign the certificates: @sudo puppet cert -s weywot1.hbz-nrw.de weywot2.hbz-nrw.de weywot3.hbz-nrw.de weywot4.hbz-nrw.de weywot5.hbz-nrw.de@
* from each node (master and clients), set everything up: @puppet agent --test --server weywot1.hbz-nrw.de@
* become the Hadoop user: @sudo su hduser@
* the automated formatting of a new HDFS currently fails, see "http://projects.puppetlabs.com/issues/5876":http://projects.puppetlabs.com/issues/5876, so we do it manually on the master and the clients: @bin/hadoop namenode -format@
* start all daemons: @cd /opt/hadoop/hadoop; sh bin/start-all.sh@
* visit the admin UIs at @http://<master>:50070/@ and @http://<master>:50030/@ to check if the cluster is up
* copy the sample job files from the @sample@ directory to @/opt/hadoop/hadoop@ and run it: @sh temperature-sample.sh@

After everything is set up and changes are made to the Puppet scripts, run @puppet agent --test --server weywot1.hbz-nrw.de@ on all machines to update the setup.

h1. Elasticsearch

h2. Install Elasticsearch

* @sudo apt-get install java7-jdk@
* @wget https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.90.7.deb@
* @sudo dpkg -i elasticsearch-0.90.7.deb@
* set @cluster.name : quaoar@ in @/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml@
* tweak memory settings in @/etc/init.d/elasticsearch@ (we use @ES_HEAP_SIZE=14g@)
* @sudo service elasticsearch restart@
* @curl http://localhost:9200@

h1. Install the elasticsearch-head plugin

* @sudo /usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/plugin -install mobz/elasticsearch-head@
* @curl http://localhost:9200/_plugin/head/@

h1. Workflow for updates

*Our current workflow for automatic updates:*

- Transform union catalogue to RDF in N-Triple serialization, trigger update (lod_hdfs_update.sh):
- Copy N-Triples from local file system to HDFS: @hadoop fs -copyFromLocal *.nt hdfs://weywot1.hbz-nrw.de:8020/user/hduser/update/@
- SSH into the Hadoop cluster and start the updates script: @ssh hduser@weywot1.hbz-nrw.de "cd /home/sol/git/lodmill/lodmill-ld/doc/scripts; bash -x job_updates.sh"@ (this requires a correct SSH key setup: public key of user logging in should be in hduser's authorized_keys).
- Delete the updates in the local file system: @rm *.nt@

*The job_updates.sh script calls the conversion and index scripts:*

- Use the external LOD (for enrichment) and our updated LOD as the input: @sh convert-lobid.sh extlod,update output/json-ld-update@
- Index the resulting output in elasticsearch: @sh index.sh output/json-ld-update@
- Delete the updates in HDFS: @hadoop fs -rm update/*@